Add documentation page on video optimization (#60574)
vercel/next.js: docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/06-optimizing/02-videos.mdx

---
title: Video Optimization
nav_title: Videos
description: Recommendations and best practices for optimizing videos in your Next.js application.
---

# Optimizing videos in Next.js applications

> Optimizing videos is important to maintain performance and enhance the user experience. This page outlines how to use videos with Next.js applications, showing how to store and display video files without affecting performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page outlines how to use videos with Next.js applications, showing how to store and display video files without affecting performance.
```

It's kind of saying the same thing here. Simplify maybe?

## Using `<video>` and `<iframe>`

Videos can be embedded on the page using the HTML **`<video>`** tag for direct video files and **`<iframe>`** for external platform-hosted videos.

### `<video>`

> The HTML [`<video>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video) tag is essential for embedding self-hosted or directly served video content, allowing full control over the playback and appearance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTML [`<video>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video) tag can embed self-hosted or directly served video content, allowing full control over the playback and appearance.
```

| `title`           | Provides a title for the iframe to support accessibility.              | `<iframe title="Description"></iframe>`       |

For a comprehensive list of iframe attributes, refer to the [MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe#attributes).

### Choosing a video embedding method

There are two ways you can embed videos in your Next.js application:

- **Self-hosted or direct video files:** Embed self-hosted videos using the `<video>` tag for scenarios requiring detailed control over the player's functionality and appearance. This integration method within Next.js allows for customization and control of your video content.
- **Using video hosting services (YouTube, Vimeo, etc.):** For video hosting services like YouTube or Vimeo, you'll embed their iframe-based players using the `<iframe>` tag. While this method limits some control over the player, it offers ease of use and features provided by these platforms.

Choose the embedding method that aligns with your application's requirements and the user experience you aim to deliver.

### Embedding externally hosted videos

> To embed videos from platforms like YouTube or Vimeo, you can use React Suspense to stream the video component once ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To embed videos from external platforms, you can use Next.js to fetch the video information and React Suspense to handle the fallback state while loading.
```

import VideoComponent from '../ui/VideoComponent.jsx'
import VideoSkeleton from '../ui/VideoSkeleton.jsx'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <section>
      <Suspense fallback={<VideoSkeleton />}>
        <VideoComponent />
      </Suspense>
      {/* Other content of the page */}
    </section>
  )
}
```

## Self-hosted videos

Self-hosting videos may be preferable for several reasons:

- **Complete control and independence**: Self-hosting gives you direct management over your video content, from playback to appearance, ensuring full ownership and control, free from external platform constraints.
- **Customization for specific needs**: Ideal for unique requirements, like dynamic background videos, it allows for tailored customization to align with design and functional needs.
- **Performance and scalability considerations**: Choose storage solutions that are both high-performing and scalable, to support increasing traffic and content size effectively.
- **Cost and integration**: Balance the costs of storage and bandwidth with the need for easy integration into your Next.js framework and broader tech ecosystem.

### Using Vercel Blob for video hosting

> [Vercel Blob](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob) offers an efficient way to self-serve videos, providing a scalable cloud storage solution that's well-integrated with Next.js. Here's how you can host a video using Vercel Blob:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Vercel Blob](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob) offers an efficient way to host videos, providing a scalable cloud storage solution that works well with Next.js. Here's how you can host a video using Vercel Blob:
```

Alternatively, you can upload your video using a server action. For detailed instructions, refer to the Vercel documentation on [server-side uploads](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/server-upload). Vercel also supports [client-side uploads](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/client-upload). This method may be preferable for certain use cases.

> Good to know: Ensure to [add the necessary hostname](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/server-upload) to your `next.config.js` to configure the domain from where the video files will be served.

**2. Displaying the video in Next.js**

Once the video is uploaded and stored, you can display it in your Next.js application. Here's an example of how to do this using the `<video>` tag and React Suspense:

```jsx filename="app/page.jsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react';
import { list } from '@vercel/blob';

export default function Page() {

>   const fileName = 'my-video.mp4';
>   return (
>     <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading video...</p>}>
>       <VideoComponent fileName={fileName} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  return (
    <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading video...</p>}>
      <VideoComponent fileName="my-video.mp4" />
```

    </Suspense>
  );
};

async function VideoComponent({ fileName }) {
  const {blobs} = await list({
    prefix: fileName,
    limit: 1
  });
  const { url } = blobs[0];

  return (
    <video controls preload="none" aria-label="Video player">
      <source src={url} type="video/mp4">
      Your browser does not support the video tag.
    </video>
  );
};
```

In this approach, the page uses the video’s `@vercel/blob` URL to display the video using the `VideoComponent`. React Suspense is used to show a fallback until the video URL is fetched and the video is ready to be displayed.

### Adding subtitles to your video

> If you have subtitles for your video, you can easily add them using the `<track>` element inside your `<video>` tag. You can fetch the subtitle file from Vercel Blob in a similar way as the video file. Here's how you can update the VideoComponent to include subtitles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have subtitles for your video, you can easily add them using the `<track>` element inside your `<video>` tag. You can fetch the subtitle file from Vercel Blob in a similar way as the video file. Here's how you can update the `<VideoComponent>` to include subtitles.
```

---
title: Video Optimization
nav_title: Videos

> description: This page contains recommendations and best practices for optimizing videos in your Next.js application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Recommendations and best practices for optimizing videos in your Next.js application.
```

---

# Optimizing Videos in Next.js Applications

> Optimizing videos is crucial in web development for maintaining site performance and enhancing user experience. This document dives into video optimization principles for Next.js web applications, highlighting effective storage and streaming methods to improve video delivery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optimizing videos is important to maintain performance and enhance the user experience. This page outlines how to use videos with Next.js applications, showing how to storage and display video files without affecting performance.
```

## Using `<video>` and `<iframe>`

> Effectively embedding video content is crucial for a dynamic web experience. This involves using the HTML **`<video>`** tag for direct video files and **`<iframe>`** for external platform-hosted videos. Understanding their use in the context of Next.js's rendering capabilities ensures optimized performance and an enhanced user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Videos can be embedded on the page using the HTML **`<video>`** tag for direct video files and **`<iframe>`** for external platform-hosted videos.
```

### `<video>`

> In Next.js, the HTML [`<video>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video) tag is essential for embedding video content directly into web pages. It's especially effective for self-hosted or directly served video files, allowing extensive control over playback and appearance. Integrating the `<video>` tag into your JSX code in Next.js enables a native video player experience on your web pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTML [`<video>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video) tag is essential for embedding self-hosted or directly served video content, allowing full control over the playback and appearance.
```

> Here's an example:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| `src`      | Specifies the source of the video file.                                                                   | `<video src="/path/to/video.mp4"></video>` |
| `width`    | Sets the width of the video player.                                                                       | `<video width="320"></video>`              |
| `height`   | Sets the height of the video player.                                                                      | `<video height="240"></video>`             |
| `controls` | If present, it displays the default set of playback controls.                                             | `<video controls></video>`                 |
| `autoplay` | Automatically starts playing the video when the page loads. Note: Autoplay policies vary across browsers. | `<video autoplay></video>`                 |
| `loop`     | Loops the video playback.                                                                                 | `<video loop></video>`                     |

> | `muted`    | Mutes the audio by default. Often used with `autoplay`.                                                   | `<video muted></video>`                    |

Reviewer: > However the video above still won’t autoplay on iOS Safari, Safari requires us to add the playsinline attribute.

Found this from a component we're using:

```
<video
  autoPlay
  loop
  muted
  playsInline
/>
```

We might want to include that guidance here? Or include this set of default props on the self-hosted video example.

| `preload`  | Specifies how the video is preloaded. Values: `none`, `metadata`, `auto`.                                 | `<video preload="none"></video>`           |

For a comprehensive list of video attributes, refer to the MDN documentation [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video#attributes).

### Accessibility Considerations

- **Fallback Content:** Provide alternative content for browsers that do not support the `<video>` tag.
- **Subtitles or Captions:** Include subtitles or captions for users who are deaf or hard of hearing. Utilize the `<track>` tag with your `<video>` elements to specify caption file sources.

> - **Accessible Controls:** Ensure video controls are navigable via keyboard and compatible with screen readers. This can be achieved by using standard HTML5 video controls or by creating custom controls that comply with ARIA (Accessible Rich Internet Applications) standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Accessible Controls:** Ensure navigation with video controls works with keyboard and compatible with screen readers. This can be achieved by using standard HTML5 video controls or by creating custom controls that comply with ARIA (Accessible Rich Internet Applications) standards.
```

### `<iframe>`

> When it comes to embedding videos from external platforms like YouTube or Vimeo, the `<iframe>` tag is the go-to choice in Next.js. This approach simplifies embedding videos from these platforms, as it reduces the load on your server and ensures optimal performance by leveraging the platform's content delivery network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HTML `<iframe>` tag allows you to embed videos from external platforms like YouTube or Vimeo.
```

> Example of embedding a YouTube video:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```html
<iframe
  src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gfU1iZnjRZM"
  frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen

> ></iframe>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/>
```

| `width`           | Sets the width of the iframe.                                          | `<iframe width="500"></iframe>`               |
| `height`          | Sets the height of the iframe.                                         | `<iframe height="300"></iframe>`              |
| `frameborder`     | Specifies whether or not to display a border around the iframe.        | `<iframe frameborder="0"></iframe>`           |
| `allowfullscreen` | Allows the iframe content to be displayed in full-screen mode.         | `<iframe allowfullscreen></iframe>`           |
| `sandbox`         | Enables an extra set of restrictions on the content within the iframe. | `<iframe sandbox></iframe>`                   |
| `loading`         | Optimize loading behavior (e.g., lazy loading).                        | `<iframe loading="lazy"></iframe>`            |
| `title`           | Provides a title for the iframe to support accessibility.              | `<iframe title="Description"></iframe>`       |

For a comprehensive list of iframe attributes, refer to the MDN documentation [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe#attributes).

> ### Choosing Between `<video>` and `<iframe>`

Reviewer 2: Perhaps this heading can be called: 

```suggestion
### When to use `<video>` vs. `<iframe>`
```

Deciding whether to use `<video>` or `<iframe>` in your Next.js application depends on the source of your video content and your specific requirements. For self-hosted or direct video files where you need more control over the player's functionality and appearance, the `<video>` tag is ideal. On the other hand, for embedding content from platforms like YouTube or Vimeo, which offer their own set of features and functionalities, `<iframe>` is the preferred choice.

> ### Displaying Externally Hosted Videos in Next.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Embedding externally hosted videos
```

> Efficiently displaying videos from platforms like YouTube or Vimeo in Next.js involves combining appropriate embedding techniques with dynamic loading strategies. Using server components with a loading state managed by React Suspense optimizes page load times and enhances user experience. This ensures videos are loaded responsively, adapting to user interactions and network conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Efficiently displaying videos from platforms like YouTube or Vimeo in Next.js involves combining appropriate embedding techniques with dynamic loading strategies. Using Server Components with a loading state managed by React Suspense optimizes page load times and enhances user experience. This ensures videos are loaded responsively, adapting to user interactions and network conditions.
```

>    The first step is to create a [Server Component](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components) that generates the appropriate iframe for embedding the video. This component will handle the logic of constructing the embed URL based on the video ID and platform, and render the iframe accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The first step is to create a [Server Component](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components) that generates the appropriate iframe for embedding the video. This component will fetch the source URL for the video and render the iframe.
```

   ```jsx filename="app/ui/video-component.jsx"
   export const async function VideoComponent(){
     const src = await getVideoSrc()

     return <iframe src={src} frameborder="0" allowfullscreen />
   }
   ```

2. **Dynamically Load the Video Component Using React Suspense**

>    After creating the server component for video embedding, the next step is to [dynamically load](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming) this component. [React Suspense](https://react.dev/reference/react/Suspense) is used here to manage the loading state, showing a fallback while the video is being prepared for display.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   After creating the server component for video embedding, the next step is to [dynamically load](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming) this component. [React Suspense](https://react.dev/reference/react/Suspense) is used to manage the loading fallback, showing a fallback while the video is being fetched.
```

2. **Dynamically Load the Video Component Using React Suspense**

   After creating the server component for video embedding, the next step is to [dynamically load](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming) this component. [React Suspense](https://react.dev/reference/react/Suspense) is used to manage the loading fallback, showing a fallback while the video is being fetched.

   ```jsx filename="app/page.jsx"
   import { Suspense } from 'react'
   import { VideoComponent } from '../ui/VideoComponent.server'

   export default function Page() {
     return (
       <section>
         <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading video...</p>}>
           <VideoComponent />
         </Suspense>
         {/* Other content of the page */}
       </section>
     )
   }
   ```

> **Good to know**: When embedding videos from external platforms, consider the following best practices:
>
> - **Responsive Embedding**: Ensure the video embeds are responsive. Use CSS to make the iframe or video player adapt to different screen sizes.

> > - **Consider Data Usage**: Implement strategies for loading videos based on network conditions, especially for users with limited data plans.

Reviewer 2: Is there a resource we can link to for "strategies for loading videos". Or would you say streaming with suspense is enough?

> > - **Accessibility Considerations**: Provide captions or alternative content for accessibility purposes.

Reviewer 2: I would consider cutting this bullet point since it repeats above.

> By integrating server components with React Suspense for loading, Next.js applications can efficiently handle externally hosted videos. This approach results in quicker load times and a smoother user experience. Such integration boosts both performance and engagement, ensuring an optimal video viewing experience on your site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This approach results in a btter user experience as it prevents the page from blocking, meaning the user can interact with the page while the video component streams in. 
```

Reviewer 2: At this point it might be a good idea to mention loading skeletons as a fallback UI. For example, Youtube uses loading skeletons extensively.

> ## Self-Hosted Video Strategies in Next.js

Reviewer 2: Maybe change this heading to "Self-hosted videos". This sound makes it sound like you could host with videos with Next.js, which I believe, the intended meaning is "If you don't want to use a service like Youtube or Vimeo"

```suggestion
## Self-hosted videos
```

> Self-hosting videos in Next.js may be preferable for several reasons, including control, trust, and customization. This approach is particularly beneficial when external services don't meet your specific needs or when you require complete command over video content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Self-hosting videos may be preferable for several reasons, including control, trust, and customization. This approach is beneficial when external services don't meet your specific needs or when you require complete customization. 
```

### Video Storage Considerations

- **Complete Control and Independence**: Self-hosting gives you direct management over your video content, from playback to appearance, ensuring full ownership and control, free from external platform constraints.
- **Customization for Specific Needs**: Ideal for unique requirements, like dynamic background videos, it allows for tailored customization to align with design and functional needs.
- **Performance and Scalability Considerations**: Choose storage solutions that are both high-performing and scalable, to support increasing traffic and content size effectively.

> - **Cost and Integration**: Balance the costs of storage and bandwidth with the need for easy integration into your Next.js framework and broader tech ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: I think you can cut this section since it's summarised in the paragraph above.

### Example: Using Vercel Blob for Video Hosting

[Vercel Blob](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob) offers an efficient way to self-serve videos, providing a scalable cloud storage solution that's well-integrated with Next.js. Here's how you can host a video using Vercel Blob:

**Step 1: Uploading a Video to Vercel Blob**

> Create a server-side function to upload your video:

Reviewer 2: It might be helpful to name the specific Next.js feature used instead of 'server-side function'. 

Perhaps we can align the Vercel docs terminology, and link to the two methods of uploading, [Server Uploads](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/server-upload) and [Client Uploads](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/client-upload). 

If you want to show an example for a server upload, you can specifically name Route Handler or Server Action.

Reviewer 2: Don't forget to mention they need to [add the hostname to next.config.js](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/server-upload#:~:text=Then%2C%20add%20the%20hostname%20to%20your%20next.config.js%20file%20including%20the%20store%20id%20from%20the%20dashboard%3A)

```ts filename="app/api/upload/route.ts" switcher
import { put } from '@vercel/blob'

export async function POST(request: Request) {
  const { searchParams } = new URL(request.url)
  const filename = searchParams.get('filename')

  const blob = await put(filename, request.body, {
    access: 'public',
  })

  return Response.json(blob)
}
```

```js filename="app/api/upload/route.js" switcher
import { put } from '@vercel/blob'

export async function POST(request) {
  const { searchParams } = new URL(request.url)
  const filename = searchParams.get('filename')

  const blob = await put(filename, request.body, {
    access: 'public',
  })

  return Response.json(blob)
}
```

> In this function, you're using the `put` method from `@vercel/blob` to upload a video file, making it publicly accessible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this function, you're using the [`put`](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/using-blob-sdk#put) method from `@vercel/blob` to upload a video file, making it publicly accessible.
```

**Step 2: Displaying the Video in Next.js**

> Once the video is uploaded and stored, you can display it in your Next.js application. Here's an example of how to do this using the `<video>` tag and React Suspense for dynamic loading:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the video is uploaded and stored, you can display it in your Next.js application. Here's an example of how to do this using the `<video>` tag and React Suspense:
```

import { list } from '@vercel/blob';

export default function Page() {
  const fileName = 'my-video.mp4';
  return (
    <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading video...</p>}>

>       <VideoComponent videoUrl={fileName} />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <VideoComponent fileName={fileName} />
```

    </Suspense>
  );
};

async function VideoComponent({ fileName }) {

>   const options = {
>     prefix: fileName,
>     limit: 1
>   };
>   const {blobs} = await list(options);
>   const videoUrl = blobs[0].url;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const {blobs} = await list({
    prefix: fileName,
    limit: 1
  });
  const { url } = blobs[0];
```

  });
  const { url } = blobs[0];

  return (
    <video controls preload="none" aria-label="Video player">
      <source src={url} type="video/mp4">
      Your browser does not support the video tag.
    </video>
  );
};
```

> In this approach, the page uses the video’s `@vercel/blob` URL to display the video using the `VideoComponent`. React Suspense is used to handle the loading state, providing a fallback until the video URL is fetched and the video is ready to be displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this approach, the page uses the video’s `@vercel/blob` URL to display the video using the `VideoComponent`. React Suspense is used to show a fallback until the video URL is fetched and the video is ready to be displayed.
```

>       <source src={videoUrl} type="video/mp4">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <source src={url} type="video/mp4">
```

If you have subtitles for your video, you can easily add them using the `<track>` element inside your `<video>` tag. You can fetch the subtitle file from Vercel Blob in a similar way as the video file. Here's how you can update the VideoComponent to include subtitles

```jsx filename="app/page.jsx"
async function VideoComponent({ fileName }) {
  const options = {
    prefix: fileName,
    limit: 2
  };

>   const {blobs} = await list(options);

Reviewer: And then make those same changes here 👍

  });
  const { url } = blobs[0];
  const { url: captionsUrl } = blobs[1];

  return (
    <video controls preload="none" aria-label="Video player">
      <source src={url} type="video/mp4">
      <track
        src={captionsUrl}
        kind="subtitles"
        srclang="en"
        label="English">
      Your browser does not support the video tag.
    </video>
  );
};
```

> By following this approach, you can effectively self-serve and integrate videos into your Next.js applications, offering a high degree of control and customization over your video content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By following this approach, you can effectively self-host and integrate videos into your Next.js applications.
```

> ## Video Optimization Techniques

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Resources

To continue learning more about video optimization and best practices, please refer to the following resources:

```

   - Choose codecs such as H.264 (high compression, quality) or VP9 (optimized for web streaming) for the best balance between quality and file size.
2. **Video Compression**:
   - Use tools such as [FFmpeg](https://www.ffmpeg.org/) to compress videos, reducing file size while maintaining acceptable quality.
   - Experiment with compression settings to find the ideal balance between quality and file size, considering the intended audience and platform.
3. **Resolution and Bitrate Adjustment**:
   - Adjust resolution and bitrate based on the target platform: lower for mobile and higher for desktop or TV viewing.
   - Lower bitrate and resolution for background videos to save bandwidth without noticeably affecting visual quality.
4. **Content Delivery Networks (CDNs)**:
   - Use a CDN to distribute video content, reducing latency and improving load times globally.
   - CDNs help manage large traffic and enhance user experience by delivering content from the nearest server.
5. **Lazy Loading of Videos**:
   - Implement lazy loading to defer loading of videos until they are in view, improving initial page load times.

> By incorporating these techniques, you can significantly enhance the performance and accessibility of videos, leading to a better user experience and increased user engagement.

Reviewer 2: While these are video best practices to know about, they don't directly relate to Next.js. So I would say if it doesn't lead them to take action or we don't have good resources to link to where the user can learn more, then we can cut. 

Additionally, lazy loading contracts with streaming. You don't need to lazy load with Server Components and Suspense. 

Maybe you can rename this section "Resources", and keep the resources listed below this text.

> ## Examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- **Cloudinary Integration**
  - Official documentation and integration guides for using Cloudinary with Next.js can be found [here](https://support.cloudinary.com/hc/en-us/categories/200477762-Client-Libraries-and-Integration-Guides).
  - A specific guide on integrating Cloudinary with Next.js is available [here](https://next.cloudinary.dev/nextjs-13).
- **Mux Video API**

>   // and link to muxt next component

Reviewer: TODO 😄

---
title: Video Optimization
nav_title: Videos
description: Recommendations and best practices for optimizing videos in your Next.js application.
---

> # Optimizing Videos in Next.js Applications

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Optimizing videos in Next.js applications
```

Optimizing videos is important to maintain performance and enhance the user experience. This page outlines how to use videos with Next.js applications, showing how to store and display video files without affecting performance.

## Using `<video>` and `<iframe>`

Videos can be embedded on the page using the HTML **`<video>`** tag for direct video files and **`<iframe>`** for external platform-hosted videos.

### `<video>`

The HTML [`<video>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video) tag is essential for embedding self-hosted or directly served video content, allowing full control over the playback and appearance.

```jsx filename="app/ui/video.jsx"
export function Video() {
  return (
    <video width="320" height="240" controls preload="none">
      <source src="/path/to/video.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
      <track
        src="/path/to/captions.vtt"
        kind="subtitles"
        srclang="en"
        label="English"
      />
      Your browser does not support the video tag.
    </video>
  )
}
```

> ### Common `<video>` Tag Attributes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Common `<video>` tag attributes
```

| `autoplay`    | Automatically starts playing the video when the page loads. Note: Autoplay policies vary across browsers. | `<video autoplay></video>`                 |
| `loop`        | Loops the video playback.                                                                                 | `<video loop></video>`                     |
| `muted`       | Mutes the audio by default. Often used with `autoplay`.                                                   | `<video muted></video>`                    |
| `preload`     | Specifies how the video is preloaded. Values: `none`, `metadata`, `auto`.                                 | `<video preload="none"></video>`           |
| `playsInline` | Enables inline playback on iOS devices, often necessary for autoplay to work on iOS Safari.               | `<video playsInline></video>`              |

> **Good to know**: When using the `autoplay` attribute, it is important to also include the `muted` attribute to ensure the video plays automatically in most browsers, and the `playsInline` attribute for compatibility with iOS devices.
>
> ```
> <video autoplay muted playsInline></video>
> ```

> For a comprehensive list of video attributes, refer to the MDN documentation [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video#attributes).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a comprehensive list of video attributes, refer to the [MDN documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video#attributes).
```

### Video best practices

> - **Fallback Content:** When using the `<video>` tag, include fallback content inside the tag for browsers that do not support video playback.

Reviewer 3: Do we need to mention this? Looks like support is very good. https://caniuse.com/video

Author: I think we should just because it's considered best practice. Sometimes it isn't necessarily the video element but also the video type

| `width`           | Sets the width of the iframe.                                          | `<iframe width="500"></iframe>`               |
| `height`          | Sets the height of the iframe.                                         | `<iframe height="300"></iframe>`              |
| `frameborder`     | Specifies whether or not to display a border around the iframe.        | `<iframe frameborder="0"></iframe>`           |
| `allowfullscreen` | Allows the iframe content to be displayed in full-screen mode.         | `<iframe allowfullscreen></iframe>`           |
| `sandbox`         | Enables an extra set of restrictions on the content within the iframe. | `<iframe sandbox></iframe>`                   |
| `loading`         | Optimize loading behavior (e.g., lazy loading).                        | `<iframe loading="lazy"></iframe>`            |
| `title`           | Provides a title for the iframe to support accessibility.              | `<iframe title="Description"></iframe>`       |

For a comprehensive list of iframe attributes, refer to the MDN documentation [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe#attributes).

> ### Choosing a Video Embedding Method

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Choosing a video embedding method
```

There are two ways you can embed videos in your Next.js application:

> - **Self-Hosted or Direct Video Files:** Embed self-hosted videos using the `<video>` tag for scenarios requiring detailed control over the player's functionality and appearance. This integration method within Next.js allows for customization and control of your video content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Self-hosted or direct video files:** Embed self-hosted videos using the `<video>` tag for scenarios requiring detailed control over the player's functionality and appearance. This integration method within Next.js allows for customization and control of your video content.
```

> - **Using Video Hosting Services (YouTube, Vimeo, etc.):** For video hosting services like YouTube or Vimeo, you'll embed their iframe-based players using the `<iframe>` tag. While this method limits some control over the player, it offers ease of use and features provided by these platforms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Using video hosting services (YouTube, Vimeo, etc.):** For video hosting services like YouTube or Vimeo, you'll embed their iframe-based players using the `<iframe>` tag. While this method limits some control over the player, it offers ease of use and features provided by these platforms.
```

Choose the embedding method that aligns with your application's requirements and the user experience you aim to deliver.

### Embedding externally hosted videos

To embed videos from platforms like YouTube or Vimeo, you can use React Suspense to stream the video component once ready.

1. **Create a Server Component for Video Embedding**

>    The first step is to create a [Server Component](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components) that generates the appropriate iframe for embedding the video. This component will fetch the source URL for the video and render the iframe.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The first step is to create a [Server Component](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components) that generates the appropriate iframe for embedding the video. This component will fetch the source URL for the video and render the iframe.
```

   ```jsx filename="app/ui/video-component.jsx"

>    export const async function VideoComponent(){

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   export const async function VideoComponent() {
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   export async function VideoComponent() {
```

     const src = await getVideoSrc()

     return <iframe src={src} frameborder="0" allowfullscreen />
   }
   ```

> 2. **Stream the Video Component Using React Suspense**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **Stream the video component using React Suspense**
```

>    After creating the Server Component to embed the video, the next step is to [stream](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming) the component using [React Suspense](https://react.dev/reference/react/Suspense).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   After creating the Server Component to embed the video, the next step is to [stream](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming) the component using [React Suspense](https://react.dev/reference/react/Suspense).
```

   ```jsx filename="app/page.jsx"
   import { Suspense } from 'react'
   import VideoComponent from '../ui/VideoComponent.jsx'

   export default function Page() {
     return (
       <section>
         <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading video...</p>}>
           <VideoComponent />
         </Suspense>
         {/* Other content of the page */}
       </section>
     )
   }
   ```

> **Good to know**: When embedding videos from external platforms, consider the following best practices:
>

> > - **Responsive Embedding**: Ensure the video embeds are responsive. Use CSS to make the iframe or video player adapt to different screen sizes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> - **Responsive embedding**: Ensure the video embeds are responsive. Use CSS to make the iframe or video player adapt to different screen sizes.
```

> > - **Consider Data Usage**: Implement [strategies for loading videos](https://yoast.com/site-speed-tips-for-faster-video/) based on network conditions, especially for users with limited data plans.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> - **Consider data usage**: Implement [strategies for loading videos](https://yoast.com/site-speed-tips-for-faster-video/) based on network conditions, especially for users with limited data plans.
```

This approach results in a better user experience as it prevents the page from blocking, meaning the user can interact with the page while the video component streams in. For a more engaging and informative loading experience, consider using a loading skeleton as the fallback UI. So instead of showing a simple loading message, you can show a skeleton that resembles the video player like this:

```jsx filename="app/page.jsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react'
import VideoComponent from '../ui/VideoComponent.jsx'
import VideoSkeleton from '../ui/VideoSkeleton.jsx'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <section>
      <Suspense fallback={<VideoSkeleton />}>
        <VideoComponent />
      </Suspense>
      {/* Other content of the page */}
    </section>
  )
}
```

## Self-hosted videos

Self-hosting videos may be preferable for several reasons:

> - **Complete Control and Independence**: Self-hosting gives you direct management over your video content, from playback to appearance, ensuring full ownership and control, free from external platform constraints.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Complete control and independence**: Self-hosting gives you direct management over your video content, from playback to appearance, ensuring full ownership and control, free from external platform constraints.
```

> - **Customization for Specific Needs**: Ideal for unique requirements, like dynamic background videos, it allows for tailored customization to align with design and functional needs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Customization for specific needs**: Ideal for unique requirements, like dynamic background videos, it allows for tailored customization to align with design and functional needs.
```

> - **Performance and Scalability Considerations**: Choose storage solutions that are both high-performing and scalable, to support increasing traffic and content size effectively.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Performance and scalability considerations**: Choose storage solutions that are both high-performing and scalable, to support increasing traffic and content size effectively.
```

> - **Cost and Integration**: Balance the costs of storage and bandwidth with the need for easy integration into your Next.js framework and broader tech ecosystem.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Cost and integration**: Balance the costs of storage and bandwidth with the need for easy integration into your Next.js framework and broader tech ecosystem.
```

> ### Example: Using Vercel Blob for Video Hosting

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Using Vercel Blob for video hosting
```

[Vercel Blob](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob) offers an efficient way to self-serve videos, providing a scalable cloud storage solution that's well-integrated with Next.js. Here's how you can host a video using Vercel Blob:

> **Step 1: Uploading a Video to Vercel Blob**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**1. Uploading a video to Vercel Blob**
```

Create a Route Handler to upload your video:

```ts filename="app/api/upload/route.ts" switcher
import { put } from '@vercel/blob'

export async function POST(request: Request) {
  const { searchParams } = new URL(request.url)
  const filename = searchParams.get('filename')

  const blob = await put(filename, request.body, {
    access: 'public',
  })

  return Response.json(blob)
}
```

```js filename="app/api/upload/route.js" switcher
import { put } from '@vercel/blob'

export async function POST(request) {
  const { searchParams } = new URL(request.url)
  const filename = searchParams.get('filename')

  const blob = await put(filename, request.body, {
    access: 'public',
  })

  return Response.json(blob)
}
```

> In this function, you're using the [`put`](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/using-blob-sdk#put) method from `@vercel/blob` to upload a video file, making it publicly accessible. For more details on server uploads, see the Vercel documentation [here](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/server-upload).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this function, you're using the [`put`](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/using-blob-sdk#put) method from `@vercel/blob` to upload a video file, making it publicly accessible. For more details on server uploads, see the [Vercel Blob documentation](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/server-upload).
```

Vercel also supports [client-side uploads](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/client-upload), which might be more suitable for certain applications.

> Good to know: Ensure to [add the necessary hostname](https://vercel.com/docs/storage/vercel-blob/server-upload) to your `next.config.js` to configure the domain from where the video files will be served.

> **Step 2: Displaying the Video in Next.js**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**2: Displaying the Video in Next.js**
```

Once the video is uploaded and stored, you can display it in your Next.js application. Here's an example of how to do this using the `<video>` tag and React Suspense:

```jsx filename="app/page.jsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react';
import { list } from '@vercel/blob';

export default function Page() {
  const fileName = 'my-video.mp4';
  return (
    <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading video...</p>}>
      <VideoComponent fileName={fileName} />
    </Suspense>
  );
};

async function VideoComponent({ fileName }) {
  const {blobs} = await list({
    prefix: fileName,
    limit: 1
  });
  const { url } = blobs[0];

  return (
    <video controls preload="none" aria-label="Video player">
      <source src={url} type="video/mp4">
      Your browser does not support the video tag.
    </video>
  );
};
```

In this approach, the page uses the video’s `@vercel/blob` URL to display the video using the `VideoComponent`. React Suspense is used to show a fallback until the video URL is fetched and the video is ready to be displayed.

> ### Adding Subtitles to Your Video

Reviewer 3: Additionally, this section doesn't feel like it should be nested under the `## Self-hosted videos` section. I'd suggest moving it up in the best practices area.

I'd also double check all the section nesting to ensure things are bucketed correctly / as expected.

If you have subtitles for your video, you can easily add them using the `<track>` element inside your `<video>` tag. You can fetch the subtitle file from Vercel Blob in a similar way as the video file. Here's how you can update the VideoComponent to include subtitles

```jsx filename="app/page.jsx"
async function VideoComponent({ fileName }) {
  const {blobs} = await list({
    prefix: fileName,
    limit: 2
  });
  const { url } = blobs[0];
  const { url: captionsUrl } = blobs[1];

  return (
    <video controls preload="none" aria-label="Video player">
      <source src={url} type="video/mp4">
      <track
        src={captionsUrl}
        kind="subtitles"
        srclang="en"
        label="English">
      Your browser does not support the video tag.
    </video>
  );
};
```

By following this approach, you can effectively self-host and integrate videos into your Next.js applications.

## Resources

To continue learning more about video optimization and best practices, please refer to the following resources:

> - **Understanding Video Formats and Codecs**: Choose the right format and codec, like MP4 for compatibility or WebM for web optimization, for your video needs. For more details, see [Mozilla's guide on video codecs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Video_codecs).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Understanding video formats and codecs**: Choose the right format and codec, like MP4 for compatibility or WebM for web optimization, for your video needs. For more details, see [Mozilla's guide on video codecs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Media/Formats/Video_codecs).
```

> - **Video Compression**: Use tools like FFmpeg to effectively compress videos, balancing quality with file size. Learn about compression techniques at [FFmpeg's official website](https://www.ffmpeg.org/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Video compression**: Use tools like FFmpeg to effectively compress videos, balancing quality with file size. Learn about compression techniques at [FFmpeg's website](https://www.ffmpeg.org/).
```

> - **Resolution and Bitrate Adjustment**: Adjust resolution and bitrate based on the viewing platform, with lower settings for mobile devices. For an in-depth understanding, read [DaCast’s guide](https://www.dacast.com/blog/bitrate-vs-resolution/#:~:text=The%20two%20measure%20different%20aspects,yield%20different%20qualities%20of%20video) on bitrate and resolution.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Resolution and bitrate adjustment**: Adjust resolution and bitrate based on the viewing platform, with lower settings for mobile devices. For an in-depth understanding, read [DaCast’s guide](https://www.dacast.com/blog/bitrate-vs-resolution/#:~:text=The%20two%20measure%20different%20aspects,yield%20different%20qualities%20of%20video) on bitrate and resolution.
```

- **Content Delivery Networks (CDNs)**: Utilize a CDN to enhance video delivery speed and manage high traffic. Find out more about CDNs and their benefits here.

Explore these video streaming platforms for integrating video into your Next.js projects:

> - **Next-Video.dev**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Open source `next-video` component**
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

  - Provides a `<Video>` component for Next.js, compatible with various hosting services including Vercel Blob, S3, Backblaze, and Mux.

>   - Detailed documentation for using `next-video.dev` with different hosting services [here](https://next-video.dev/docs).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - [Detailed documentation](https://next-video.dev/docs) for using `next-video.dev` with different hosting services.
```

- **Cloudinary Integration**

>   - Official documentation and integration guides for using Cloudinary with Next.js can be found [here](https://support.cloudinary.com/hc/en-us/categories/200477762-Client-Libraries-and-Integration-Guides).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Official [documentation and integration guides](https://support.cloudinary.com/hc/en-us/categories/200477762-Client-Libraries-and-Integration-Guides) for using Cloudinary with Next.js.
```

>   - A specific guide on integrating Cloudinary with Next.js is available [here](https://next.cloudinary.dev/nextjs-13).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - A [specific guide](https://next.cloudinary.dev/nextjs-13) on integrating Cloudinary with Next.js.
```

- **Mux Video API**

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>   - Mux provides a starter template for creating a video course with Mux and Next.js, available on GitHub [here](https://github.com/muxinc/video-course-starter-kit).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Mux provides a [starter template](https://github.com/muxinc/video-course-starter-kit) for creating a video course with Mux and Next.js.
```

>   - Learn about embedding a video player in Next.js applications using Mux [here](https://www.mux.com/for/nextjs).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Learn about Mux's recommendations for embedding [high-performance video for your Next.js application](https://www.mux.com/for/nextjs).
```

  - Explore an example project demonstrating Mux with Next.js [here](https://with-mux-video.vercel.app/).

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

- **Fastly**

>   - Fastly offers solutions for video on demand and streaming media. Learn more about their offerings and how to integrate with Next.js [here](https://www.fastly.com/products/streaming-media/video-on-demand).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - Learn more about integrating Fastly's solutions for [video on demand](https://www.fastly.com/products/streaming-media/video-on-demand) and streaming media into Next.js.
```

---
title: Video Optimization
nav_title: Videos
description: Recommendations and best practices for optimizing videos in your Next.js application.
---

# Optimizing Videos in Next.js Applications

Optimizing videos is important to maintain performance and enhance the user experience. This page outlines how to use videos with Next.js applications, showing how to store and display video files without affecting performance.

## Using `<video>` and `<iframe>`

Videos can be embedded on the page using the HTML **`<video>`** tag for direct video files and **`<iframe>`** for external platform-hosted videos.

### `<video>`

The HTML [`<video>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video) tag is essential for embedding self-hosted or directly served video content, allowing full control over the playback and appearance.

> ```jsx filename="app/page.jsx"

Reviewer 2: Nit

```suggestion
```jsx filename="app/ui/video.jsx"
```

> export default function Page() {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export function Video() {
```

| `loop`        | Loops the video playback.                                                                                 | `<video loop></video>`                     |
| `muted`       | Mutes the audio by default. Often used with `autoplay`.                                                   | `<video muted></video>`                    |
| `preload`     | Specifies how the video is preloaded. Values: `none`, `metadata`, `auto`.                                 | `<video preload="none"></video>`           |
| `playsInline` | Enables inline playback on iOS devices, often necessary for autoplay to work on iOS Safari.               | `<video playsInline></video>`              |

> **Good to know**: When using the `autoplay` attribute, it is important to also include the `muted` attribute to ensure the video plays automatically in most browsers, and the `playsInline` attribute for compatibility with iOS devices.
>
> ```
> <video autoplay muted playsInline></video>
> ```

For a comprehensive list of video attributes, refer to the MDN documentation [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/video#attributes).

### Video best practices

> - **Fallback Content:** When using the `<video>` tag, include fallback content inside the tag to support browsers that do not support video playback.

Reviewer 2: Nit, double **support** in the same sentence. 

```suggestion
- **Fallback Content:** When using the `<video>` tag, include fallback content inside the tag for browsers that do not support video playback.
```

| `height`          | Sets the height of the iframe.                                         | `<iframe height="300"></iframe>`              |
| `frameborder`     | Specifies whether or not to display a border around the iframe.        | `<iframe frameborder="0"></iframe>`           |
| `allowfullscreen` | Allows the iframe content to be displayed in full-screen mode.         | `<iframe allowfullscreen></iframe>`           |
| `sandbox`         | Enables an extra set of restrictions on the content within the iframe. | `<iframe sandbox></iframe>`                   |
| `loading`         | Optimize loading behavior (e.g., lazy loading).                        | `<iframe loading="lazy"></iframe>`            |
| `title`           | Provides a title for the iframe to support accessibility.              | `<iframe title="Description"></iframe>`       |

For a comprehensive list of iframe attributes, refer to the MDN documentation [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe#attributes).

### Choosing a Video Embedding Method

> When integrating video content into your Next.js application, consider how your choice of video hosting impacts the embedding method.

Reviewer 2: Nit

```suggestion
There are two ways you can embed videos in your Next.js application: 
```

> - **Self-Hosted or Direct Video Files:**
>   Embed self-hosted videos using the `<video>` tag for scenarios requiring detailed control over the player's functionality and appearance. This integration method within Next.js allows for customization and control of your video content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Self-Hosted or Direct Video Files:** Embed self-hosted videos using the `<video>` tag for scenarios requiring detailed control over the player's functionality and appearance. This integration method within Next.js allows for customization and control of your video content.
```

> - **Using Video Hosting Services (YouTube, Vimeo, etc.):**
>   For video hosting services like YouTube or Vimeo, you'll embed their iframe-based players using the `<iframe>` tag. While this method limits some control over the player, it offers ease of use and features provided by these platforms.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Using Video Hosting Services (YouTube, Vimeo, etc.):** For video hosting services like YouTube or Vimeo, you'll embed their iframe-based players using the `<iframe>` tag. While this method limits some control over the player, it offers ease of use and features provided by these platforms.
```

   }
   ```

2. **Stream the Video Component Using React Suspense**

   After creating the Server Component to embed the video, the next step is to [stream](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming) the component using [React Suspense](https://react.dev/reference/react/Suspense).

   ```jsx filename="app/page.jsx"
   import { Suspense } from 'react'
   import VideoComponent from '../ui/VideoComponent.jsx'

   export default function Page() {
     return (
       <section>
         <Suspense fallback={<p>Loading video...</p>}>
           <VideoComponent />
         </Suspense>
         {/* Other content of the page */}
       </section>
     )
   }
   ```

> **Good to know**: When embedding videos from external platforms, consider the following best practices:
>
> - **Responsive Embedding**: Ensure the video embeds are responsive. Use CSS to make the iframe or video player adapt to different screen sizes.
> - **Consider Data Usage**: Implement [strategies for loading videos](https://yoast.com/site-speed-tips-for-faster-video/) based on network conditions, especially for users with limited data plans.

> This approach results in a better user experience as it prevents the page from blocking, meaning the user can interact with the page while the video component streams in. For a more engaging and informative loading experience, consider using a loading skeleton as the fallback UI. So isntead of showing a simple loading message, you can show a skeleton that resembles the video player like this:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This approach results in a better user experience as it prevents the page from blocking, meaning the user can interact with the page while the video component streams in. For a more engaging and informative loading experience, consider using a loading skeleton as the fallback UI. So instead of showing a simple loading message, you can show a skeleton that resembles the video player like this:
```

- **Resolution and Bitrate Adjustment**: Adjust resolution and bitrate based on the viewing platform, with lower settings for mobile devices. For an in-depth understanding, read [DaCast’s guide](https://www.dacast.com/blog/bitrate-vs-resolution/#:~:text=The%20two%20measure%20different%20aspects,yield%20different%20qualities%20of%20video) on bitrate and resolution.
- **Content Delivery Networks (CDNs)**: Utilize a CDN to enhance video delivery speed and manage high traffic. Find out more about CDNs and their benefits here.

Explore these video streaming platforms for integrating video into your Next.js projects:

- **Next-Video.dev**

  - Provides a `<Video>` component for Next.js, compatible with various hosting services including Vercel Blob, S3, Backblaze, and Mux.
  - Detailed documentation for using `next-video.dev` with different hosting services [here](https://next-video.dev/docs).

- **Cloudinary Integration**
  - Official documentation and integration guides for using Cloudinary with Next.js can be found [here](https://support.cloudinary.com/hc/en-us/categories/200477762-Client-Libraries-and-Integration-Guides).

>   - A specific guide on integrating Cloudinary with Next.js is available [here](https://next.cloudinary.dev/nextjs-13).
> - **Mux Video API**
> 
>   - Mux provides a starter template for creating a video course with Mux and Next.js, available on GitHub [here](https://github.com/muxinc/video-course-starter-kit).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A specific guide on integrating Cloudinary with Next.js is available [here](https://next.cloudinary.dev/nextjs-13).
  
- **Mux Video API**
  - Mux provides a starter template for creating a video course with Mux and Next.js, available on GitHub [here](https://github.com/muxinc/video-course-starter-kit).
```
